---
title: "Choose your own appventure, part 3"
categories:
  - appventure
  - log
tags:
  - keras
  - tensorflow
  - cyoa
---

I have a little bit of catching up to do with the state of my project.  I created my dataset, and trained it on the Keras model, and wasn't super happy with the results. 

Before I show a small batch, first I want to define a few terms, taken mostly from the Keras.io [documentation](https://keras.io/getting-started/faq/).

 * Epoch: an arbitrary cutoff, generally defined as "one pass over the entire dataset", used to separate training into distinct phases, which is useful for logging and periodic evaluation.
 * Diversity: A way to describe the temperature, which is a hyperparameter (a term from Bayesian statistics) that determines the randomness of the output.
* Seed: a sample from the training data that the model uses to predict the next words

These samples are all generated from the same seed (chosen randomly), "at he could send into the history of the".

----- Generating with seed: 
at he could send into the history of the soul of the sensation of the sense, and it is not the self sacrificed to the same the more the same the sense, and as the sense, and as the world of the more the sensation of the principally and some consideration of the proterration, as the world, and a pression of the self respecting that it is a superiority and the observation of the soul of the consideration to the self experience as the prin
----- diversity: 0.5
----- Generating with seed: "at he could send into the history of the"
at he could send into the history of the more powerful and a superior is the powers and common the intercauted, when a state or the intercauted to which be opinion and say to them are not do he could be sure, that it always the amoration and with instruing, and feeling of an artists and notive former thing of the slift necessarily the truth to the saint and respective, the soul and always the experience as the intercaus--and woman
capab
----- diversity: 1.0
----- Generating with seed: "at he could send into the history of the"
at he could send into the history of the "sagn greater sulsish that all their will not been a
dangly,
and readily wea. the more have wish to whicd moralle--or effect.s and they insciation, far is previcile and
origin, the
men which was erranne and doudls, evorwazity, the cruely. he had has love of
life. in his hearted
immoral-courtism, and the permittent for instance, which
we dourty--a long will procount,
but, as to sair to a certain t
----- diversity: 1.2
----- Generating with seed: "at he could send into the history of the"
at he could send into the history of the -clongs of nature
freeicates to theative, thus still
his vanity hardeminies a praisos of mechologic feels them--we did not
federecision of dread) tought the older for a semmnle affair--one
unciacce to posities accro. tooe-time-craws into suffe; fis; and honest. theroy, stupilization. fundance and indust one everyther out--he every witchingmenn, in him, many by a doc light of all inflict. we even


